# Wine exploration and clustering: Unveiling the stories within Italian wines

This project aims to explore and cluster Italian wines based on their characteristics using a clustering algorithm KMeans and data exploration within the notebooks folder in the `main.ipynb`.

## Project Structure

- `data/`: This directory contains all the data used in this project. It is divided into four subdirectories:
  - `external/`: Any external data sources.
  - `interim/`: Intermediate data that has been transformed.
  - `processed/`: The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
  - `raw/`: The original, immutable data dump.

- `models/`: This directory contains the trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries.

- `notebooks/`: This directory contains Jupyter notebooks for exploration and testing. The main notebook is `main.ipynb`.

- `reports/`: This directory contains generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc. It also includes any figures generated by the notebooks. Go to this directory to see the full ProfileReport made in the `main.ipynb` notebook containing important information about the data distribution.

## Getting Started

To get started with this project, you need to have Python 3.11 installed on your machine. You can then install the required packages using the following command:

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

You can run the main notebook (`main.ipynb`) to see the exploration and clustering process.

# Setting Docker
1. Open your terminal.
2. Navigate to the `pipe` directory where the Dockerfile is located.
3. Build the Docker image by running the following command:
```bash
docker build -t image-name .
```
4. Run the Docker container with the following command:
```bash
docker run -p 8000:8000 image-name
```
In the above commands, replace `image-name` with the name you want to give to your Docker image.

## Accessing the data through the API

The data extraction API, data exploration and clustering analysis are implemented in `data_analysis_and_model.py` located in the `pipe/src` directory. To access the data, make a GET request to the following endpoint:

```
http://localhost:8000/data
```
Here, the data is retrieved from the original URL: [Original dataset](https://storage.googleapis.com/the_public_bucket/wine-clustering.csv)

## Accesing the data exploration

The exploration of the data retrieved from the API in the same code mentioned before will be in the next url:
```
http://localhost:8000/data-exploration
```

## Accesing the clustering model implementation

The implementation of clustering model in the data and the important information about it will be in the next url:
```
http://localhost:8000/clustering-analysis
```

## Dependencies

The dependencies for the scripts are listed in `requirements_scripts.txt` located in the `pipe` directory. You can install them with pip:

```bash
pip install -r requirements_scripts.txt
```

# Additional Information

For more detailed information about the project, graphs and all the analysis made, refer to the `main.ipynb` notebook located in the `notebooks` directory.

Please replace `image-name` with the name you want to give to your Docker image. Also, make sure to update the API endpoint and the pip command with the correct information based on your project's setup.